Title: A Tale of a Failed Social Engineering Attempt
Date: 2009-07-27 23:24
Author: Bryce
Tags: Personal, Social Engineering
Slug: a-tale-of-a-failed-social-engineering-attempt

In computer security you hear a lot about [Social Engineering](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_engineering_%28security%29),
and for good reason. As far as computer security goes the human being
really can be the weakest link, knowingly or unknowingly. And if your
curious on examples or stories of social engineering I recommend the
book [" The Art of Deception"](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?ie=UTF8&location=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FArt-Deception-Controlling-Element-Security%2Fdp%2F076454280X%3Fie%3DUTF8%26s%3Dbooks%26qid%3D1248676753%26sr%3D8-1&tag=scrollingtext-20&linkCode=ur2&camp=1789&creative=9325)
edited by Kevin Mitnick.

IMAGE LOST

However, not all social engineering has to be for technical reasons or
even technically related. I say this because up until a couple of days
ago, that is really how I generally thought about it. Granted I realize
that social engineering is something that anyone can use for any reason.
But as someone who lives and breathes computers, I tend to forget that
there are things outside the world of binary computations.

Here in Portland, the last weekend of July is host to the Oregon
Brewers' Beer Festival. And for the last three years I've volunteered as
a server. The way the festival works is you buy a 12oz mug (pictured
below). If you look at the mug you can see about the last 1/3 of the cup
has a different shape than the top two thirds. That change is the taster
line at 4 oz. And at the festival you pay one dollar to fill up a
particular beer to that line. If you want a full cup of beer its four
dollars. And to help with making sure that all of the servers are
honest, instead of the transactions being done with money, the
transactions are done with wooden tokens worth a dollar each.

IMAGE LOST

Now just by the very nature of people, some are going to try and cheat
the system. I've dealt with drunk people, and some that were less than
friendly, but never someone who was trying to cheat the system, but to
be honest until this year I never saw it (or at least I was never aware
of it being done to me)

At some point in the evening, a very pretty brunette in sunglasses
approached my booth. She holds out her hands, in her right hand is her
cup and in her other hand is two tokens. Not saying a word I grabbed one
token from her hand and proceeded to fill her cup to the requisite line.
I put the cup back in front of her, and expect her to leave. Instead she
looks at me and says “I'm sorry, can I get a full cup please?”. At which
point I say “Sure, I just need three more tokens from you.” So she digs
into her purse and proceeds to pull out two more tokens. And says, “Here
you go.”

“I'm sorry, I your still one token short.”

“What about the two tokens I gave you to begin with?” This is where the
actual trap sprang. Being I'm not actively paying attention for this,
just kind of on auto pilot, I second guess myself. And try to remember
what happened before, just to make sure that I only took one token. And
I remember that I do and say, 

“Your right, but I only took one token from you. So your still one token
short.”

“Are you sure?”

Taking a quick second to verify then I say, “Yup and when it comes to
beer I don't fuck around.”

At which point she sighed, and proceeded to reach into her purse to grab
me another token. At which point I handed her her glass, and she walked
away.

Now I must be honest, I didn't recognize this attempt at subterfuge
until after the interaction was over. While I was going through it I was
trying to make sure I was correct with what I was saying. If it was a
more sophisticated attack, she might have gotten away with it.

I will say that after going through this experience, I'm more aware of
how easy it is to succumb to social engineering. And now I also have a
bit of compassion and sympathy for those people to get socially attacked
like this but are not aware of it till maybe after it happens to them.
