Title: Fold.it
Date: 2009-06-18 18:03
Author: Bryce
Tags: computational biology, games
Slug: foldit

So... I've been a long time proponent of
[Folding@Home](http://folding.stanford.edu/). Its a good project that
takes your extra CPU cycles and donates them to research protein
folding. According to the site some of today's diseases, like
[Alzhiemers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alzhiemers), [Mad
Cow](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mad_cow), and
[Huntingtons](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huntingtons_Disease) are the
result of proteins folding incorrectly. The project uses [distributed
computing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_computing) to help
crunch large amounts of data in a reasonable time because individuals,
like me, donate extra CPU cycles.

The reasons for it are actually posted on this site:

```
Why is protein folding so difficult to understand?

It's amazing that not only do proteins self-assemble -- fold -- but they
do so amazingly quickly: some as fast as a millionth of a second. While
this time is very fast on a person's timescale, it's remarkably long for
computers to simulate. In fact, it takes about a day to simulate a
nanosecond (1/1,000,000,000 of a second). Unfortunately, proteins fold
on the tens of microsecond timescale (10,000 nanoseconds). Thus, it
would take 10,000 CPU days to simulate folding -- i.e. it would take 30
CPU years! That's a long time to wait for one result!
```

I couldn't agree with the quote more, that is a long time to computer a
single result. This makes me believe that this problem is one known as
an [NP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NP_(complexity)) problem. Its an
easy explanation as to why it would take so long to get just a small
period of real time computed. So, like all these kinds of problems, the
question is asked “How can we speed things up?” Currently the way to try
and solve this particular problem has been to throw more technology at
it. There are now versions of the program that user a computer's
[GPU](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gpu) to do these computations faster.
Which has been known to show a significant improvement from the number
crunching standpoint, however there is now another way.

This is where [fold.it](http://fold.it/portal/) steps into the picture.
Instead of using extra CPU cycles, fold.it turns the problem protein
folding research into a game. Yes you heard me correctly, a game. As I
understand things, players choose a puzzle, which is a protein that has
already been folded, and the player that folds a particular protein
closest to the natural protein wins points that particular puzzle, the
top five or so players get points in the ranking system.

So I encourage you all to open an account, and play a couple of rounds
of this interesting game for science. Or to show that you can fold a
protein better than a computer. Oh, and don't forget to add
[me](http://fold.it/portal/user/110349) to your buddy list.

Happy folding!
