Title: Practice Makes Perfect
Date: 2010-08-11 21:32
Author: Bryce
Tags: Observation, Perspective, Practice
Slug: practice-makes-perfect

I recently came across a blog post that is probably old enough to not be
called a “blog post”. It’s called the Python Paradox. And the first
paragraph starts like this, “In a recent talk I said something that
upset a lot of people: that you could get smarter programmers to work on
a Python project than you could to work on a Java project.” While I
encourage everyone to read the rest of the short essay for yourselves,
my interpretation of this essay is simply that programmers who in their
spare time learn esoteric languages are generally better programmers and
the ones you want to hire. If I haven’t already lost you, I really do
have a reason for thinking this: practice.

</p>

As ZenHabits puts it, “It takes anywhere from 6-10 years to get great at
something, depending on how often and how much you do it. Some estimate
that it takes 10,000 hours to master something, but I think it varies
from person to person and depends on the skill and other factors.”

</p>

I would count time spent coding at work to be practice. It’s certainly
possible to learn new things about writing code from one’s coworkers,
even if they happen to be bad coders, (just don’t do what they do) but
you still have to be advanced enough to be aware of their mistakes. And
that time learning and doing goes towards the ambiguous tipping point of
around 10,000 hours. But it’s the programmer who goes home and fusses
with something outside of his or her job that matters. The programmer
who goes home and answers stack overflow questions for an extra couple
of hours a week, writes open source code in her spare time, or keeps a
tech blog where he documents and discusses with the world all of his
little projects. That extra time spent doing these activities adds up,
and allows someone to become a more proficient programmer quicker than
just doing a job alone. I feel that type of programmer is what Paul
Graham was talking about when he said “smarter programmers”. It’s not
that these Python programmers back in 2004 had more brain power than
non-Python programmers, they probably just wrote better or smarter code
because they had more practice.

</p>

On a side note, I can’t help but feel there is a correlation with Python
back in 2004 and functional programming languages today. People spending
their free time working on projects that interest them, adding more time
to the great skill clock. I feel safe in going out on a limb to
paraphrase the quote above and state that, “You could get smarter
programmers to work on a FP project than you could to work on a .NET or
Java project.”

</p>

