Title: Thank you ITT
Date: 2009-06-06 07:27
Author: Bryce
Tags: Personal
Slug: thank-you-itt

So this is my first blog post, and I want to use it to tell a quick
story.

Being I am about to graduate college soon (that is a relative term of
course); my mind has been juggling with the path to take next. I have
about over five years of expirence being in IT including the last three
as a Unix student worker at PSU, and none as being a programmer. So
going back to IT would be really easy, and with a degree now the process
of finding a job in a bad economy would become a easier. And of course
going this route would remove the fear I have about becoming a
professional programmer. Yes, I said it, I'm scared. I have no idea what
the world of professional programming will expect from me. I'm fresh out
of school and full of mostly theory, but not much in the way of
practical experience. Sure I've done scripts for work. And yes my
Capstone project (translate: required internship) does have me
programming and interacting with a group of programmers towards a
specfic goal, I can't help but feel a little anxious regarding the
unknown.

And this internal struggle has been going on for a while now. Then about
a month ago I was taking the MAX from downtown Portland to the airport.
Along the way it passes by an ITT Tech Institute. The parking looked
like it could hold about one hundred to one hundred and fifty cars, and
it was full. And of course I remembered a couple of good friends of mine
who graduated from ITT. And they seem to be doing well for themselves in
these rough times. But it put all the effort I've been putting in since
I decided to go back to school four years ago into serious perspective.

And so thanks for a full parking lot of an ITT students, I know that
once I graduate college I'm going out into the world and finding a
programming job.
